train/README.md, before:

```shell
# Create new virtual environment
python3 -m venv venv && source venv/bin/activate

# Install Torch 2.0.1
pip3 install torch==2.0.1 torchvision==0.15.2 torchaudio==2.0.2 --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu118

# Install Dependencies
pip install accelerate==0.23.0 transformers==4.33.3 sentencepiece==0.1.99 packaging==23.1 ninja==1.11.1 einops==0.7.0 wandb==0.15.11

# Install Flash Attention 2
pip install flash-attn==2.3.0 --no-build-isolation

# 2xA100 80GB
torchrun --nproc_per_node=2 --master_port=20001 train.py \
    --model_name_or_path meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf  \
    --data_path llama_training_dataset.jsonl \
    --train_valid_split 0.9 \
    --bf16 True \
    --num_train_epochs 2 \
    --per_device_train_batch_size 2 \
    --gradient_accumulation_steps 16 \
    --per_device_eval_batch_size 4 \
    --eval_accumulation_steps 16 \
    --evaluation_strategy "steps" \
    --eval_steps 400 \
    --save_strategy "steps" \
    --save_steps 200 \
    --save_total_limit 5 \
    --learning_rate 2e-5 \
    --weight_decay 0.3 \
    --warmup_ratio 0.03 \
    --lr_scheduler_type "cosine" \
    --logging_steps 1 \
    --fsdp "full_shard auto_wrap" \
    --fsdp_transformer_layer_cls_to_wrap 'LlamaDecoderLayer' \
    --tf32 True \
    --model_max_length 4096 \
    --gradient_checkpointing True \
    --output_dir functionary-v1
```

*Note: This training process might not work exactly as is. We've changed a couple of things in the training code and not tested yet.*

Commit message:

refactor to run training from root

train/README.md, after:

```shell
# Create new virtual environment
python3 -m venv venv && source venv/bin/activate

# Install Torch 2.0.1
pip3 install torch==2.0.1 torchvision==0.15.2 torchaudio==2.0.2 --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu118

# Install Dependencies
pip install accelerate==0.23.0 transformers==4.33.3 sentencepiece==0.1.99 packaging==23.1 ninja==1.11.1 einops==0.7.0 wandb==0.15.11

# Install Flash Attention 2
pip install flash-attn==2.3.0 --no-build-isolation

# 2xA100 80GB, from the root directory of the repository
torchrun --nproc_per_node=2 --master_port=20001 train/train.py \
    --model_name_or_path meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf  \
    --data_path llama_training_dataset.jsonl \
    --train_valid_split 0.9 \
    --bf16 True \
    --num_train_epochs 2 \
    --per_device_train_batch_size 2 \
    --gradient_accumulation_steps 16 \
    --per_device_eval_batch_size 4 \
    --eval_accumulation_steps 16 \
    --evaluation_strategy "steps" \
    --eval_steps 400 \
    --save_strategy "steps" \
    --save_steps 200 \
    --save_total_limit 5 \
    --learning_rate 2e-5 \
    --weight_decay 0.3 \
    --warmup_ratio 0.03 \
    --lr_scheduler_type "cosine" \
    --logging_steps 1 \
    --fsdp "full_shard auto_wrap" \
    --fsdp_transformer_layer_cls_to_wrap 'LlamaDecoderLayer' \
    --tf32 True \
    --model_max_length 4096 \
    --gradient_checkpointing True \
    --output_dir functionary-v1
```

*Note: This training process might not work exactly as is. We've changed a couple of things in the training code and not tested yet.*
